# ATREIDYZ
ATREIDYZ (Antique Telescope Retrofit: Electronics Implement Declination, Yaw, and Zoom) is a project to motorize a 1967 Jason/Empire model 311 telescope with modern electronics to solve issues aligning and focusing the telescope on celestial objects through precision and automation.

## Rationale
I possess a Jason/Empire model 311 telescope, manufactured c. 1967, which is capable of magnifying celestial objects up to 280X. The telescope lenses are in good condition despite their age, but a major issue with the telescope is its mount. Because of the instability of the mount, it is difficult to aim and focus the telescope without knocking it out of alignment; even a small tap to the viewing end can cause the telescope to lose sight of a smaller celestial object such as Mars. Because this has been a repeated problem, I seek to solve it by adding motors to the telescope's mount and focusing knobs, which will allow me to precisely position the telescope and focus on whichever object I am interested in.

## Background
A refracting telescope works by capturing light from an object and bending it through two lenses separated by a given distance, called the focal length, and reflecting it into an eyepiece for an observer to see. Because of the refraction, the image will be inverted. In the case of the Jason 311, the focal length is 700 mm with a 60 mm aperture (size of fixed lens). Magnification is determined by the formula $ M = \frac{f}{f_e}$, where $f$ is the telescope focal length and $f_e$ is the eyepiece focal length. By using a higher power lens, the observer will see a more magnified image, but the image will also be dimmer and less sharp. Barlow lenses can increase magnification by artifically increasing telescope focal length, but they have the same trade-off. Each telescope has a maximum useful magnification before image quality deteriorates beyond usefulness, generally determined to be twice the aperature in millimeters. Even if a telescope has a large aperature, atmospheric turbulence and other factors can degrade the quality of images at high magnifications. In the case of the Jason 311 telescope, the maximum magnification it can achieve is 280X because it has a 700 mm focal length, a 5 mm eyepiece at the smallest, and a 2X Barlow lens.

Celestial objects are plotted on a coordinate system called the "celestial sphere," where they are placed on a sphere encapsulating Earth. With the exception of the Sun and planets, which move around noticeably on the sphere, celestial objects have a fixed set of coordinates on the sphere because their apparent motion relative to Earth is negibable on human timescales. Thus, their position is described in terms of right ascention $\alpha$, the celestial analog to terrestrial longitude, and declination $\delta$, the celestial analog to terrestrial latitude. The actual apparent position of a celestial object to an observer is described by azimuth, which describes the angle of separation from true north, and altitude, which describes the angle of separation from the flat plane intersecting the observer. Azimuth and altitude are typically measured in degrees ($\textdegree$), which are subdivided into arcminutes ($\frac{1}{60}$ of a degree, symbol: ') and arcseconds ($\frac{1}{60}$ of an arcminute, symbol: "). An object's size on the celestial sphere can also be measured this way. For example, the Sun and Moon are on average 30' in angular diameter, while Mars is 3-25" (the variation caused by its eccentric, superior orbit to Earth's), 10-66" for Venus, 15-20" for Saturn, 2.2-2.4" for Neptune, and 1.0 microarcseconds for Proxima Centauri, which is so dim that only a powerful telescope can display it.

This information is important because it determines how precise the motors need to be for the telescope to accurately find these objects. At a minimum, the telescope should be able to make adjustments to within a quarter of the angular diameter of the planets at their furthest. It just so happens that Mars, a critical target, has a minimum angular diameter closely matching that of Uranus (3.3") and Neptune. Therefore, ATREIDYZ requires motors that can make adjustments with 750 microarcseconds of accuracy on the celestial sphere. How that translates to the motors on the mount and the mount setup itself will require some calculations.
